There are two types of data structures:

first : Physical Data Structures 
Second : Logical Data Structures

Physical Data Structures
------------------------
the data structure which comes in this category is ARRAY and LINKED LIST
because we have to store data in memory like that only.

Now lets deep dive to the fact that a program only have two type of memory which is heap and stack.
stack is responsible for static memory allocation hence array comes into it. Means when you know the amount of
data you are dealing with then you can define array which is going to be created inn stack.

when you want to create the data structure dynamically beacuse you don't know with how much data you are dealing
with then you need to have heap memory and remember that heap memory of the portion of the program is only 
accessed via pointers like 
int * p = (int *)malloc(1* sizeof(int));

so these are the significance of physical data structures.

Logical Data Structures
-----------------------
The logical data structures are actually those data structures which are made by these physical data 
structures just to do any specific task. 
Like Logical data structures are: Stack, Queues,trees, Graphs, Hash Tables.
These data structures are actually made by physical data structures and theya are created for certain task to
handle diffrent requirement of insertion, deletion and updation so there are certain values you could have think 
and then go for such data structures.




ADT(abstract Data Type)
-----------------------
So this term is evolved when we start using object oriented programming in software development.
Since We know that an int which is a primitive data type. having a byte for keep track of sign bit and we can 
perform various mathematical operations on that as well. But in binaries we don't know how these 
addition substraction is happening on the data structure(int) this is abstraction for us.


see the point of understanding this concept is since in object oriented programming we can create the data 
type according to our own so we can make that data type abstract means you can use the data type but you won't
know the internal functionality of the the data type. 

BTW we call class a user defined data type in case if you forget that.






































